you know it's a good thing but some
animals clearly let you know they're no
joke
sharks with rows and rows of razor sharp
teeth
a scorpion's venomous stinger the
ominous sound of a rattlesnake about to
strike
you get the picture yet plenty of
seemingly harmless creatures wreak more
havoc
than even the scariest animals out there
like the spotted lanternfly
a pretty little bug from parts of taiwan
vietnam and
northern china that managed to bring its
own terror
around the world yikes let me explain
only about as big as the tip of your
thumb this bug is
easily identifiable it has gray or
brownish four wings with black spots
under those you have bright red hind
wings that make this critter a real
beauty
but don't be fooled this insect can be
an ecosystem's worst
nightmare and it's on the move traveling
to korea japan
and even across the ocean to middle
america along the way
it's damaged countless plant species in
the u.s
it's been infesting maple and birch
trees so
what's the big deal the lanternfly
pierces the tissue of leaves and stems
then it slurps out the sap this leaves a
sugary coat on the leaves that allows
mold to thrive the plant or tree can't
grow after that
and it eventually wills this can then
impact food production
trees and developing forests now don't
worry too much
this bug doesn't bite or sting people
but the plant loss they cause is enough
to get the highest authorities involved
in the case
stepping off the land and diving into
the ocean we see a creature whose body
is covered with venomous spines
meet the crowd of thorns starfish it
spends its days
crawling around and feeding on coral
that's usually great for the local
ecosystem
they eat the super fast growing corals
giving the slower species a chance to
catch up in the race
but when the starfish grows too large in
numbers the real problems start
they can quickly eat up vast parts of
the coral reef system
this starfish is even partly to blame
for the huge losses in australia's great
barrier reef
a 2012 study showed that they were one
of two leading causes of coral loss in
the last 27 years
them and tropical cyclones even worse
their spines produce a neurotoxin that
causes a sharp stinging pain that lasts
for hours
if you happen to touch or step on one of
these starfish
the spines can break off into your skin
next comes possible infection
and a series of other problems so stay
away from this one
next up we have the common carp you
might know the colorful version of this
fish
the koi those were specially bred to
look more vivid
carps are freshwater bottom feeders they
eat plants
animals algae and other microorganisms
living in the mud in rivers and lakes
the problem is their feeding lowers the
water quality
carp uproot the plants they munch on and
make the water cloudy
that doesn't allow enough light to get
through so some species struggle
they also produce large amounts of
nitrogen this makes the water
uninhabitable for other fish
and that's why many people consider them
pests
unbelievably the elephant is also on
this list of nature's terrors
to find food and water these giants roam
across
vast territories along the way they
break branches pull up bushes
and push over entire trees if they
uproot a few here and there
it's usually easy for forests to recover
from the damage
but the situation got bad enough at one
point for scientists to be concerned
trees throughout
east africa were severely damaged by
passing elephants
keep in mind the gentle giants weren't
entirely at fault
at the time there were many fires
pushing the elephants on the move
and it isn't all bad either after
elephants munch on their fruits and
veggies
they transport the seeds miles away oh
how do they do that
oh yeah elephant doo-doo then new trees
start to grow
and when there's no available water they
dig deep holes in the ground with their
feet trunks and tusks
that also helps other thirsty animals in
the area
other ecosystem wreckers are kangaroos
australia has been struggling with the
animal's overpopulation recently
a decade of wet weather brought a lot of
food and abundant marsupials
they went from 27 million in 2010 to
45 million in six years kangaroo started
wiping out native plants and many
animals were left without food and
habitat
by stripping the grasses anchoring down
the ground they cause erosion in areas
that struggle to preserve the soil
locusts form enormous swarms and spread
across
areas destroying crops in their path
this leads to a shortage of food
and some species can't survive the most
notorious are the desert locusts that
live in africa
asia and the middle east in quiet times
they cover an area of six million square
miles that's almost twice the size of
canada
but during a spike in their numbers they
can cover one-fifth of the earth's land
a regular swarm that blackens the skies
can be
miles in size it contains 60 million
locusts
every half a mile each locus eats its
weight in plants
every day a swarm the size of paris
can eat the same amount of food in a day
as half of france's population
goats are nothing to scoff at either
they're voracious eaters with an
appetite for shrubs
trees and all sorts of plants they can
turn
rich dense woodlands into barren
grasslands
when left to do as they please the
problem became more noticeable in
australia
and other isolated islands where people
tried to start a settlement
they dig into the earth's crust where
their hooves the goats not the people
when the weather's bad winds will
transport the loose soil
and erosion begins another cute yet
invasive species
is the cane toad they became successful
invaders in oceania the caribbean the us
and a few other places in fact they were
first introduced to eradicate other
pests
but ended up becoming pests themselves
cane toads are toxic and scientists link
them with the extinction of several
species in northern queensland
they're dangerous to wildlife since
their poison glands can take out birds
mammals
fish and reptiles they'll compete for
food
and they'll eat anything they can
swallow kitchen scraps
your pet's food and even other animals
some species will multiply in rotting
wood but the mountain pine beetle will
exterminate
live trees the insects invaded the
canadian rockies
and millions of acres have been affected
they strike live trees by laying eggs
under the bark
that disrupts the phloem basically a
plant's vascular system
like veins and humans and stops the
circulation
eventually the trees turn brown and rot
it takes them two weeks to wipe out the
outer layer of a tree
they're pretty robust too since they're
a resistor to temperatures as low as
-40 degrees fahrenheit once they infest
a tree
it's a goner jellyfish have been part of
the global ecosystem for 500 million
years
but now it seems like they're taking
over the seas maybe even the world
recent strong winds and hot weather
spells have pushed
large numbers of blue bottle jellyfish
near the shores
there hoards of them have been stinging
large numbers of people
in 2018 more than 1 000 people were
stung in florida
in 2019 13 000 cases were recorded in
queensland australia
in just one week it doesn't end there
in 2011 two reactors had to be shut down
in scotland
because jellyfish started blocking the
cooling filters
something similar happened in sweden in
2013 with a power plant being shut down
in 1999 an island in the philippines had
a complete blackout because of jellyfish
too many jellies can trigger a
deterioration in the ecosystem
but even though they multiply like crazy
the numbers aren't alarming
at least not yet one of the world's most
invasive species but probably not for
the reasons you're thinking
are rats they're expert survivors and
that makes them dangerous when they're
introduced to new areas
like the time black rats invaded lord
howe island in the tasman sea
they destroyed crops gobbled up the
fruits and seeds of many local plants
and prevented them from reproducing they
also took bird eggs from nests
and ate anything in their path experts
believe that mice first appeared in the
area
in 1850 rats showed up in 1918 when they
escaped from a sinking ship
in a century they played a massive role
in the extinction of five local bird
species
13 invertebrates and two plants it got
to the point that a zoo took in flocks
of two other endangered bird species to
help them survive
there were 150 000 rats and 200
000 mice on the island but a nearly
extinct bird species successfully went
back home
after eradication and lastly there's
humans
come on need i explain